**==> picture [100 x 97] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
=<br>~<br>\ \\ \  ||y \<br>\<br>\ ‘<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## GRAPHIC DESIGN IN THE AGE OF INTERACTIVE MEDIA 

media environment according to user needs trough Metadesign /bottom-up/ together with the User Centred Design /to ~~p-~~ down/ to achieve common goals. 

## Prof. Martin Sperka 

## 1 Traditional media 

Faculty of Informatics and Information Technology, Slovak University of Technology, Slovakia martin.sperka@fiit.stuba.sk 

‘he media before computer era /b.c./ are called traditional media ~~-~~ paper based, film, television, radio. We will concentrate op paper base dand sceen type media. The most important and the most frequented term in this era has been the graphic design, which was credited to W. A. Dwinggins, a letterer, calligrapher and type, book and advertising designer as well as novelist, playwright an marionette impresa- ~~r~~ io, who in 1922 proposed the term as definition of his own multifaceted professional activity [1]. The original term was certainly broad enough term to include layout or board person, type ~~-s~~ etter, airbrush artist, books illustrator. During the 1930s, graphic designers who were also involved in package and Product design, as well as those who occupied in industrial design called themselves ‘designer for industry’ [1]. The machine age led them to bring a "ew form of cross ~~-d~~ isciplinary field, where the visual Style and industrial production had to correspond (Corporate identity). Independent design company t0ok responsibility for the conception and production Of complete projects rather than specialized aspects Of the whole. In the post war period, as dedicated design departments and_ so ~~-~~ called design laboratories developed within progressive COrporations, cross ~~-d~~ isciplinary programs grew in Popularity as well as necessity. The graphic designers had to know how their work fit into the larger context. context. Originally stand alone disciplines were disciplines were were integrated into overall practices and designers had to be fluent in much more than their own specialties. Starting in the 1950s, in an effort to expand graphic design in the international business world, designers ‘eferred to themselves with more _ inclusive designations ‘visual communicator, visual designer, graphic communicator, communications specialist €tc.’ [1]. Yet even in 1990s, graphic disciplines were more complex and seem to be identified but a lot of changes in graphic design and visual communication 

Anton Stolar Matej Bell University, Faculty of Humanities, Department of Fine Arts, Slovakia stolar@fhv.umb.sk 

## Introduction: 

Traditional graphic design forms could (and even artist, books illustrator. During the 1930s, graphic should) be practised by individuals depending on designers who were also involved in package and their relative skill, expertise and inclination. Recent Product design, as well as those who occupied in development of traditional design as well as new industrial design called themselves ‘designer for media has expanded to new divisions, industry’ [1]. The machine age led them to bring a unprecedented collaborations and specializations in "ew form of cross ~~-d~~ isciplinary field, where the visual news intermediate fields. Currently a graphic Style and industrial production had to correspond designer connects various media into one multimedia (Corporate identity). Independent design company form. Design and related disciplines as architecture, t0ok responsibility for the conception and production environmental design, programming production and Of complete projects rather than specialized aspects other technical support staff are moving and Of the whole. In the post war period, as dedicated changing their meaning. design departments and_ so ~~-~~ called design laboratories developed within progressive The goal of the paper is to explain, compare and COrporations, cross ~~-d~~ isciplinary programs grew in show new design terms within their appropriate Popularity as well as necessity. The graphic contexts, and to clarify the relationship among them designers had to know how their work fit into the on the background of the traditional significance. The _ larger context. context. Originally stand alone disciplines were disciplines were were paper aims at the analysis of contexts and_ integrated into overall practices and designers had to consequences, anticipation of the design process, be fluent in much more than their own specialties. human computer interface in digital environment, and understanding a designer’s role in the future. Starting in the 1950s, in an effort to expand graphic 

We suppose that physical interface between users and artificial systems (computers) will fade and move to the mental interface according to the advances in technology. The changes will determine the manner of sharing information in mouldable advanced New 

**==> picture [72 x 20] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
ITT<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [256 x 20] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
JANUARY 5 - 7, 2005<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


(terms that are used interchangeably) again initiated The design process as a whole begins with the first questions about their meaning. ideas about a project and does not end until the print piece is produced. The designer develops ideas 1.1 Graphic design inside the context of the objectives and user needs. The Oxford English dictionary contains 24 definitions |The design process can be divided into a few relative of the word design. The most relevant are the self-employed phases illustrated in Figure 1. Each phrases ‘to form a plan... to purpose or intend (a_ step in each phase is affected by another and they thing) to be or do (something)...'[10]. Design is of must occur before the next step can begin. All of the course a word with multiple meanings, but some _ steps in the process will occur whether it is by default typical connotations in more established design or with purpose. Even though we don’t know a full disciplines and in design theory include the parallel definition of the term graphic design, we can emergence of question and answer, the activity of understand it trough its function and creation of the exploring possible futures, the synthesis of reason paper media. and emotion, the intervention on many simultaneous levels in a design situation. The graphic design effect in traditional media can be 

levels in a design situation. The graphic design effect in traditional media can be divided according to paper media as an interface Webster defines the graphic design '...as the art or between information and user of editorial, book, profession of using design elements (as typography typography, advertising, corporate or environment and images) to convey information or create an_ design, illustrated in Figure 1. Now in age of effect; also a product of this art’ [8]. The primary expanded media, it is not a sufficient way to define definition is simple about communicating to other the widening range of the graphic design opportunity. human beings through word and images. Generally, graphic design is the applied art of arranging image and text to communicate a message. Concrete — " F Completion TRADITIONAL VANSch AIRDIA @ LAYOUT _ GRAPHIC DESIGN ie 1) : L “FINE ART INFORMATION lial DESIGN FUNCTIONA LSPECIFIC ATIONS CONTEN T REQUIREMENTS Abstract xX : ic Conception USER NEEDS MEDIA OBJECTIVES 

Figure 1: Process of creation the paper mediaaccording to key phases. 

**==> picture [103 x 126] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
[2] A<br>< [~—__] = apt<br>mW \ \\)<br>me \\\1<br>\ yy\<br>\ \<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


1.2 Layout Differences between traditional page and modern Traditional graphic design directed the viewer's page are linearity or the sequential organization of attention through the layout. Layout is the information from ‘top to bottom’ [1] on the page. arrangement, or composition, of elements in twoLinearity is based on scroll analogy in which dimensional space. The OED explains that layout is information is perceived as a continuous, sequential the act or process of planning or laying out in detail. flow. Modern layout disturbes linearity by the splitting Word lay out as verb is synonyms to such verbs as _ the text into several part — the introduction is on the design, arrange, map (out), plan, set out [8]. first page (finished by the link to the next part) and the Designers often use a grid system to help with rest continues on other pages. Introductory parts of organization of visual elements. Invisible linear diferent topics had also different visual styles. extensions (subjective lines) are sucha strong device Howver this strategy, used in the newspapers is for relating compositional areas that designers also sometimes disturbing, especially when reading large use them in the form of grid system for the layout and newspapers in the bus, train or airplane causes organization of blocks of type, logos, and graphic difficulties in turning the pages of the newspaper forth information [16]. and back. Reading similar text layout on the computer monitor is much easier and requires just Before the layout can begin, design decisions must simple pointing and clicking. 

Before the layout can begin, design decisions must be made about what elements will be included. The final design becomes the model on which layout decisions are based, and the objectives established at the beginning of a project become the objectives form the layout as well as the design. The system can be applied to one image or made to relate a_ completely corporate campaign. The modern layout has involved from symmetrical page by experimented and implicated visual perception principles. 

Layout is important issue in the urban and architectural design, where functional and easthetical criteria are merged together as well as in the design of microelectronics chips (functional criteria only). In the layout of Very Large Scale Integrated electronics circuits exist many formal design theories, which enable to automate this activity. The same can be said about architecture (buildings, urban complexes), 

**==> picture [332 x 249] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Book design Editoral design<br>Typography oo Corporate design<br>rig re design<br>Figure 2: Some graphic design disciplines inthe traditional media.<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


=inam 2 INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM 2005 oF INTERACTIVE MEDIA DESIGN : WL JANUARY 5 - 7, 2005 but where functional criteria are blurred by the social define New media in terms of system features and and aesthetic issues and where formal and_ services, industry structures or the psychology of mathematically exact methods are not very used. media users [2]. The only difference between current There exist some attempts to automate layout in the and past practice is the type of work available. When Web design as for example [17]. In more general _ the internet was first invented, Web design consisted sense, layout of graphic document is a parallel to the of a very basic markup language that included some spacial composition of the photography image. Both formatting options, and the unique ability to link are static. Time and space composition is typical for pages together using hyperlinks. The Web in these animated cartoons or film (video). Dominantly time days is a global hypermedia system but the based composition is typical for the written or spoken development of increasingly sophisticated text and music. However written text can be technologies has fostered its use also a remote composed also spacially having additional visually software interface [5]. According to Garret ‘this dual aesthetic meaning. (Calligraphy). The same is valid nature has led to much confusion, as user about the music notation, which can be exploited as_ experience practitioners have attempted to adapt a visual artefact. All these media use basic elements _ their terminology to cases outside the range of its (lexical or syntactic units) which are composed _ original application’. (according to some exact or intuitive) syntactic rules (the grammar of written text, design rules in 2D Figures 3, 4 show more frequent disciplines that layout). currently fall under the graphic design or are areas where graphic designer is currently finding work as a 2 New media collaborator in broader design activities. Among them The media post computer era (p.c.) are called New are Web design and CD/DVD ~~-~~ ROM design, which media. The term New media has been used since the has become an entry point for a wide range of artist 1970s by researchers leading social, psychological, and designers illustrated in Figure 3. 

The media post computer era (p.c.) are called New are Web design and CD/DVD ~~-~~ ROM design, which media. The term New media has been used since the has become an entry point for a wide range of artist 1970s by researchers leading social, psychological, and designers illustrated in Figure 3. economic, political, and cultural studies of information and communication technologies [1]. 2-1 Information architecture Webster defines New media as '...integration of The phrase “information architecture" was used in computers, computer networking, and multimedia.’ the 1960s, by R. S. Wurman, a man trained as an Many definitions of New media or new architect but who has become alsoa skilled graphic communication technology are simply lists of designer and the author, editor, and/or publisher of particular technologies or systems or their features. Numerous books that employ fine graphics in the Many focus on computing technology (or the Presentation ofinformation in a variety of fields. In his convergence of computing and telecommunications) career as an architect, became interested in matters and the sense of interactivity that New media give Concerning the ways in which buildings, transport users. New time based media are often contrasted Utilities, and people worked and interacted with each with the, one ~~-~~ way information flows of traditional other in urban environments [14]. mass media. The term New media on design field ; ; ; oo represents Web site and CD/DVD ~~-~~ ROM interface Information architecture in this time refers to the design. Creating paper and screen based content is ways in which information is arranged on a Web site. now almost exclusively on digital platforms ~~—~~ online, A simple method of information architecture Is to offline ~~-~~ both broadband and narrow band, interactive craw a site map. A site map 's a graphic view of the television, SMS, MMS, DVD, CD Rom, PC based or Web site how the information in the web site Is console specific such as Sony PlayStation, Nintendo structured, and how you get to it. Each box on the site Game Cube and Microsoft Xbox. Therefore we will 4P will eventually become a page of the site. As use also alternative term Digital media. Wands [3] explains: ‘If there are multiple ways to get Generally, researchers concerned with technological, a box, there need be multiple navigational tools to get economic or behavioural issues have tended to there’. 

er =\agt1! \ \g) \\ The role of the architect is to work with the data from scientific reports to high-school textbooks. Over structure of the Web site. Information architects are sixty years ago, it was improved by German designer responsible for determining how the Web site will and social scientist O. Neurath [1]. The images were work, what data formats are needed, determine what in stages transformed to universal graphic symbols content and functionality the site will contain, how the that were used in charts, maps and graphs to information is grouped, what expectations of the represent specific ideas. These images involved to users will be satisfied, specifies how users will find ‘pictorial sign symbols’ and structured to lexicons of information in the site by defining its organization, icons used to clarify all kinds of data what are known navigation, labelling, and searching systems, what _ in these days [1]. type of programming and software are appropriate. Pictorial signs and symbols are used in traditional 2.2 Information Design graphic design disciplines as well as navigational Also Known as Communication Design or Graphic buttons on computer screens of software products, Communication Information design, at its most Web sites and CD/DVD-ROMS. The sign symbols or rudimentary employs type and graphics to clarify and icons are only one small part of information design. concretise mostly no visual information, such as facts According to Heller [1] information design ‘is and figures. Disciplines like Scientific illustration and concerned with transforming data into information, recently Scientific (computer) visualization have the making the complex easier to understand and to same goal to visualize what is invisible. This is notan use’. Information design is a rapidly growing entirely new form. Some kinds of images have been discipline that draws on typography, graphic design, used throughout the century in public documents, applied linguistics, applied psychology, applied ergonomics, computing, and other fields. It emerged as an answer to people's need to understand and use such things as forms, legal documents, computer TASK OBJECT interfaces and technical information. ORIENTED ORIENTED i? ae ear<2, Software design NEW MEDIA Multimedia design INTERFACE|NAVIGATION Web design DESIGN DESIGN INFORMATION DESIGN INTERACTION INFORMATION DESIGN “ARCHITECTURE FUNCTIONAL SPECIFIC ATIONS CONTEN T REQUIREMENTS / =~ s- Ceccse RoR USER NEEDS MEDIA OBJECTIVES Figure 3 shows a process of creation of the New media Figure 4 depicts some new graphic disciplines to create according to key phases. the interactive media. 

**==> picture [508 x 82] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
=ipa— » INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM<br>2005 oF INTERACTIVE MEDIA DESIGN<br>: JANUARY 5 - 7, 2005<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Information design does not replace graphic design page into a home site or to other sites trough and other visual disciplines, but is the structure hyperlinks.The navigation elements are not only through which these capabilities are expressed [4]. elements of navigation item of menu bar, controlling The role of the information designer is to guide users panels or windows, but also each hyper media away from confusion into understanding of subjects. reference. Information designers consider the selection, structuring and presentation of the information 10 facilitate the correct interface design and provider's message in relation to the purposes, skills, "avigation in the information space, many formal experience, preferences and conditions of the methods of modeling it appeared in last years. intended users. To do this they need specialist !nformation space can be represented as a finite knowledge and skills in graphic communication and state machine ~~—~~ deterministic automaton. Visual typography, the psychology of reading and learning, depiction of how the user will move and navigate human ~~-c~~ omputer interaction, usability research and _ trough this space of interactive application is in form clear writing, plus an understanding of the potential Of navigation flow chart, which is non-linear series of and limitations of different media. boxes connected by lines that show the paths of information flow. There is generally a main screen or 2.3 Navigation and interface design menu, which is usually where the users start. There The relationship between user and_ digital are keywords or graphic icons and symbols on the environment has been solved by Human Computer main page that take the user to other areas of the Interaction HCI, in this time traditional discipline yet. application. HCI has introduced a new concept to share ; ; information as User Centered Design (UCD) 2.4 Interaction design ; illustrated in Figure 3. Interaction Design is a field and approach to designing interactive experiences. Interactive Garret [5] says interface design by HCI concept is experiences, necessarily, require time as an ‘design of interface elements to facilitate user Organizing principle and interactive design is interaction with functionality and content Concerned with a user, customer, audience, or requirements’ that supports data transfer to a flat Participant's experience flow through time. panel display in digital format. Jeeves [11] defines _ [nteractivity should not be confused with animation in HCI as ‘a discipline concerned with the design, Which objects may move ona screen. Interactivity is evaluation and implementation of interactive concerned with being part of the action ofa system or computing systems for human use and with the study Performance and not merely watching the action of major phenomena surrounding them. passively. Interaction design describes the set of skills that are needed to design the forms through Figure 2 illustrates dual nature of the recent New which we can effectively use information technology media. While the task centred design is able to the [73]. According to Gerret [5] the interaction design is interactivity like concept action ~~-~~ data when a user at. development of application flows to facilitate user first selects action (from menu bar alternatively by tasks defining how the user interacts with site typing ) after that inputs data, in the object orientation functionality...’ and content requirements. interface is able to use a new concept object ~~—~~ action when a user at first selects object (often as GUI5) !nteraction design is involving term which reflected and afterward chooses action. For the concept object technical and technological possibility therefore most ~~-~~ action has been established term navigation designations on the design field not commonly design. Garret [5] says that navigation design is agreed with original explication of interaction design ‘design of interface elements to facilitate the user's 4S simple character user interface (DOS, UNIX) or movement through the information architecture’. 9raphical user interface GUI. The most used GUIs Navigation is a way to pass from one page to another "epresent a desktop metaphore (Xerox idea, commercially introduced by Apple and mass 

— 2 — | Y \ \ \ \ ~ \ 4) \ \ \\ \ } \ \ ‘ application by Microsoft Windows). Other online applications (one step towards the semantic metaphores of user interfaces appeared. These Web) and faciliate data mining and other more simulate natural communication in a specific effective searching of information in the complex appllications (for example simulators and games) by _ structures. exploiting multimedia, virtual reality and augmented reality. Scientists, engineers as well as artists and Enforcement of the Metadesign is not simple. It designers work on the interfaces which could involve requires a new way of thinking, active contributors more human senses. and not just passive consumers. The bottom ~~-~~ up 3 . relationship between consumer-designer is Advanced New media supposed to change from passive consumer trough Advanced New media as new kinds of methods and active consumer, end ~~-u~~ ser, user, power users, local techniques allow sharing information to advanced developers, domain designer to ‘meta ~~-d~~ esigner’ [4]. manners. This environment supported by artificial On the other side the develop design to ~~p-~~ down will intelligence requires a new kind of expert of graphic have to satisfy users needs with sophisticated User design. Advanced New media change the structure Centred Design. and contents of our interests, the nature of our cognitive and collaborative tools, the social 3.2 User Centred Design environment in which thoughts invent and develop, User Centred Design (UCD) is a comprehensive and mindsets. Fischer [4] reports that advanced New product development methodology. It starts by media increases the potential issues and research clearly specifying the site objectives, and the user's problems for new design methodologies, cognition needs, limitations and preferences. The HCD and motivation the design of New media and new analysis is applied to the design of the product, and technologies. The changed conditions require a new the testing of the product. A UCD approach meets view to design in future digital environment. Figure 3 both user's need and the business objectives. As illustrates effective solution trough intelligent Nomesa [15] has shown ‘UCD is circular process and interactive environment that include the most contains stages like requirements gathering & sophisticated methods of treating and structuring analysis, content design & structure, information by top-down way, jointly in conjunction a implementation, QA testing, deplo ~~y-~~ ment, new form of self-organization design that Fischer [4] measurement and analysis’. UCD works with user at labelled the ‘metadesign’ and we denote as bottom-up every stage of the process to ensure that the solution way. generated has the highest levels of usability and 3.1 . accessibility. The end result is a solution that has In Metadesign ; been adjusted to the requests of the user. The UCD philosophy or human sciences, meta means, what process is continuous and the only way to ensure goes beyond or what Is more comprehensive Or that the experience generated by the product fundamental. In computer science metadata is data remains effective requires that it must be measured. that describes other data (data about data) [8]. One could describe any computer programming aS 4 Current trend in intelligent communication system is meta-language for interacting with a computer. Meta characterized by ‘multiple communication modalities, in consequence technology delivers not only content distribution of information and control, and flexible but also through its codes and structures, a specific adaptation to the user’ [14]. Distributed multimedia meaning: This specific meaning Is described by ‘the and global information network such as Internet are meta information defining a relation between the key enabling technologies for such a system. technology, structure, sign and content’ [12]. Intelligent agent technology is a new approach to the Extended intelligent system development which harmoniously for Markup Language (XML) and other tools works with distributed multimedia and Internet creating metainformation are examples of simple technologies. It also allows the developer to create 

## 2005 oF INTERACTIVE MEDIA DESIGN A JANUARY 5 - 7, 2005 

intelligent system with greater adaptability to the construction to programming and production experts. user. Wyllys [14] explains that the most successful Problems that were serious five years ago have been examples of intelligent agent understand user's’ easily solved in the repertoire of contemporary language, infer user's real goals, derive plans to graphic design. satisfy user's goals, and carry out the plans. Such agents also utilize various ‘multimedia resources and In the try to redefine graphic design in the 1990s, the other agents on the network, in order to communicate Web has involved traditional graphic applications, to the user in the most effective way’ [14]. such as type and page layout, wed to non-traditional graphic design such as sound and motion [1]. The 4. The designer in advanced New media role of designer has involved to two ways. Some New A few years ago, the technology did not allow for media designers come directly from traditional sophisticated design nuances. Today it seems that media, while others bypass traditional entirely. While graphic design was never easy. The designer in designer in traditional media should understand these days is solely an architect, leaving the prepress and printing limitations (can actually make mechanical aspects of Web page CD/DVD-ROM_ without contact to press room), the Web and PROCES ORIENTED [ | Exceptions A Emer gence INTELIGENT = AGENT & TECHNOLOGY Personal signs structure 2 g 5 DES Construction [I | Immer sion Representation Web signs structure . Resolution IMPLEMENTATION‘up TESTING - CONTENT DESIGN) * DEPLOYMENT 3 ao MEASUREMENT & ANALYSIS ‘2 _ _ USER NEEDS MEDIA OBJECTIVES 

Figure 5 outlined the model of interaction process in advanced new media according to two collaboration bottom-up and top-down ways. 

De — A | Y \ \ \ \ \aa \ \\ y \ \ \ ‘ Conclusion This paper has provided a a brief history and overview of some terms of the major themes and influences that have shaped the original field of graphic design. Current graphic design in advanced New media is not only defined as visual problem. The field of graphic design diffuses into experience design, interaction design and sensorial design near (include design all sense) to cognitive science. The original voluntary design has become component part the sophisticated UCD that facilitated and activated the individual users to enter into digital environment. This paper is not intended to provide either a complete history of the past or a full scale future trends. It is rather to give a context for the recommendations which will follow. It examines some of the the options that graphic designers are offered today and analyses the widening expectations of users in relation to technological shifts that have allowed the graphic designer to branch away from traditional toward advanced New media. Understanding what design is and how it works in both philosophical and practical context will be more important than decorating digital artefacts with the goal to give a form to the content. 

CD/DVD designer must work directly with the Conclusion technology to achieve results. Different designers This paper has provided a a brief history and overview use different methods ~~-~~ combining market research, of some terms of the major themes and influences user testing, prototyping and trend analysis. A that have shaped the original field of graphic design. graphically designed object can be expressive or Current graphic design in advanced New media is neutral, hard sell or soft sell, classical or radical. not only defined as visual problem. The field of Graphic design may be utilitarian, but it is not void of graphic design diffuses into experience design, the creative essence too. Some designers may have _ interaction design and sensorial design near (include personal styles, but none can be islands without design all sense) to cognitive science. The original bridges to clients, production personnel or other voluntary design has become component part the designers. Although good instinct is part of the sophisticated UCD that facilitated and activated the designer's arsenal, there are more scientific ways to individual users to enter into digital environment. This make appropriate design. The level of complexity or paper is not intended to provide either a complete simplicity is determined either by the nature of the history of the past or a full scale future trends. It is message or the preference of the designer. rather to give a context for the recommendations which will follow. It examines some of the the options that A good graphic designer is able to adapt existing graphic designers are offered today and analyses the historical or contemporary models and derive unique widening expectations of users in relation to approaches. The future of graphic design rests in its technological shifts that have allowed the graphic ability to be absorbed into different sectors of human designer to branch away from traditional toward activity from art and sciences to entertainment. The advanced New media. Understanding what design is volume of cross ~~-d~~ isciplinary activities that affect and how it works in both philosophical and practical designers today is going to grow in the future and context will be more important than decorating digital “graphic design” will become a much more massive artefacts with the goal to give a form to the content. discipline that will include the ability to write, to design, to communicate, and to edit. To develop a Acknowledgement useful theory of decision information processing, This project was partially supported by grant designer needs to further understand the process by VG1/0161/03 (Information processing in the which humans make decisions, how information distributed environment of intelligent agents). affects this process, and how to construct effective interface technologies to enlarge user performance. References Designer will become less specialized and more [1] Heller, S. and Fernandes, T., (1999) Becoming oriented to cognitive science especially cognitive graphics designer, New York: John Wiley and sons, psychology, philosophy and culture to create an_ Inc. appropriate structure of sharing information. This [2] New media http://polaris.gseis.ucla.edu/llievrou/ comesrepresentationby patientand enthusiasticstudy of practice.user's knowledge HNMwhatis.htm! (2003) 

Acknowledgement This project was partially supported by grant VG1/0161/03 (Information processing in the distributed environment of intelligent agents). 

[3] Wands, B., (2002) Digital creativity New York: John Wiley and sons, Inc. [4] Fischer, University of Colorado, Meta design http://www.cs.colorado.edu/~I3d/ (2003) 

For a long time, designers have dealt with uncertainly John Wiley and sons, Inc. defined problems, which caused them to develop a [4] Fischer, University of Colorado, Meta variety of skills and methods necessary to generate http://www.cs.colorado.edu/~I3d/ (2003) creative solutions. On the other hand, certain thought in the fields of human- ~~f~~ actors have dealt with well[5] Garrett, The Elements of User defined problems that generate specific knowledge. ttp://www.jjg.net/ia/, (2000) A broader approach, combining these two ways of — [6] http://www.cultureandrecreation.gov.au/ thought, is necessary to deal with the complexity of — articles/newmedia/ interaction in the future. 

[5] Garrett, The Elements of User Experience, ttp://www.jjg.net/ia/, (2000) 

## 2005 oF INTERACTIVE MEDIA DESIGN IOAN JANUARY 5 - 7, 2005 

[8] http://www. Webster.com 

[9] http://www.wordiq.com/definit ~~ioD~~ -ROMn/C 

[10 Oxford University Press, Oxford English dictionary, www.oed.com/public/inside (2002) 

[11] Ask Jeeves, Inc. http://www.ask.com (2004) 

[12] 'ARCA, http:/Awww.la ~~b-~~ au.com (2003) 

[13] Shedroff, Information interaction design, Vivid Studios http://www.nathan.com/thoughts/unified/ (1994) 

[14] Wyllys et al., Information Technologies and the Information Professions 

http://www.ischool.utexas.edu Jan, 2003) 

[15] Humanising technology for effective eBusiness, Nomesa, www.nomesa.com, (2003) 

[16] Ocvirk, O.G. et al. (2001) Art fundamentals, New York: Mc Graw Hill. 

[17] Sartoris, M., (2004) System for the Layout and Time Sequence Design of Multimedia Documents from Non ~~-~~ complete specification. Master Thesis: FIIT STU Bratislava. 

