ee Human Factors in Computing Systems 

CHI '94 + "Celebrating Interdependence" 

rl 

## Interactive Graphic Design Using Automatic Presentation Knowledge 

Steven F. Roth, John Kolojejchick, Joe Mattis, Jade Goldstein 

School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 268-7690 Steven.Roth@cs.cmu.edu 

## ABSTRACT 

All information about a single activity can be obtained by glancing horizontally across the graphic. Most packages do do enable users to create charts and tables like these, but only as isolated displays. Even painstaking cutting, pasting, and resizing (usually the only means provided) are insufficient to layout and and sort the bars and text in a coordinated coordinated way. 

We present three novel tools for creating data graphics: glancing horizontally across the graphic. Most packages do do (1) SageBrush, for assembling graphics from primitive enable users to create charts and tables like these, but only objects like bars, lines and axes, (2) SageBook, for as isolated displays. Even painstaking cutting, pasting, and browsing previously created graphics relevant to current resizing (usually the only means provided) are insufficient needs, and (3) SAGE, a knowledge-based presentation to layout and and sort the bars and text in a coordinated coordinated way. system that automatically designs graphics and also interprets a user's specifications conveyed with the other Similarly, current packages provide no way to create a tools. The combination of these tools supports two single display with different graphical objects. In 1b, complementary processes in a single environment: design properties of lines, text strings and diamond-shaped marks as a constructive process of selecting and arranging vary to integrate ten data attributes. Also, graphical objects graphical elements, and design as a process of browsing are clustered to express facts (i.e. each diamond is and customizing previous cases. SAGE enhances useraccompanied by two text labels to convey the geographic directed design by completing partial specifications, by location, city, and date of battles). Together, these graphics retrieving previously created graphics based on their illustrate the large number of possible combinations of appearance and data content, by creating the novel displays object types, their graphical properties, the encoding that users specify, and by designing alternatives when spaces in which they occur (e.g. within a chart, map, table, users request them. Our approach was to propose interfaces or network), and the different ways they can be clustered employing styles of interaction that appear to support and aligned. Clearly, current menu-style interfaces in graphic design. Knowledge-based techniques were then spreadsheet packages would not support the creation of so applied to enable the interfaces and enhance their usability. many alternatives, nor could they help users assign data attributes to these graphics easily. Imagine the difficulty of KEYWORDS: Graphic Design, Data Visualization, conveying the relationship between data in spreadsheet Automatic Presentation Systems, Intelligent Interfaces, columns and all the graphical objects and properties in 1b. Design Environments, Interactive Techniques Furthermore, imagine the considerable design expertise INTRODUCTION required of users to produce these displays, including an Graphic displays of information have been valuable for awareness of the appropriateness of graphic choices for supporting data exploration, analysis, and presentation. each data type. Even when users can judge the Still, current graphics packages remain very limited effectiveness of a particular display of their data, they often because: (1) they do not provide integrative displays for lack exposure to the many types and combinations of viewing the relations among several data attributes or data graphics that are possible. Systems that provide the ability sets, (2) they have time-consuming and complex interfaces, to create new integrative designs will need to provide and (3) they provide little guidance for the majority of design guidance as well. users who are not experienced graphic designers. 

One approach to these problems is to build systems that are Consider these problems in the context of two graphics in knowledgeable of graphic design, so they can generate a Roth Color Plate 1. In la, a sequence of indented text, variety of effective displays based on descriptions of data charts, and a table are aligned to integrate six attributes of and viewing goals [1,3,4,9,10]. This research has provided activities (organization, start, end, status, cost, resource). a vocabulary for describing the elements of graphics, Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is knowledge about the appropriateness of their use for granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for different data and tasks, and design operations for direct commercial advantage, the ACM copyright notice and the combining elements to form integrative displays. title of the publication and its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of the Association for Computing Armed with this knowledge, automatic design systems Machinery. To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee should reduce the need for interaction and expertise, while and/or specific permission. CHI94-4/94 Boston, Massachusetts USA ® 1994 ACM 0-89791-650-6/94/0112...$3.50 

Armed with this knowledge, automatic design systems should reduce the need for interaction and expertise, while 

112 

Boston, Massachusetts USA +» April 24-28, 1994 

Human Factors in Computing Systems - including the operations that produced produced Roth Color Plate Plate 1a, can be found elsewhere [7,9]. 

providing great flexibility in customizing displays. including the operations that produced produced Roth Color Plate Plate 1a, However, previous automatic design research has not been can be found elsewhere [7,9]. concerned with supporting interaction with users and has focused on issues of identifying and encoding knowledge The current version of SAGE goes beyond previous of data, tasks, and design. No paradigms have been systems in several ways. SAGE can create graphics when developed for a collaborative process between human and users completely specify their designs as well as when they automated designers. provide no specifications at all. Most importantly, it can accept partial specifications at any level of completeness This paper describes a novel approach to interactive between these two extremes and finish the design graphic design, in which automatic mechanisms are used to reasonably. User specifications serve as design directives, support users, not replace them. The following sections which constrain the path of a search algorithm that selects describe an overview of our approach, two major and composes graphics to create a design. components of the system that correspond to two complementary styles of design, and some sample design The ability to accept partial specifications from Brush is interactions which illustrate these capabilities. due to a rich object representation of the components of 

The ability to accept partial specifications from Brush is due to a rich object representation of the components of graphic displays, including their syntax (i.e. their spatial and structural relationships) and semantics (i.e. how they indicate the correspondence between data and graphics). The representation allows SAGE to produce combinations of a wide variety of 2D graphics (e.g. charts, tables, maplike coordinate systems, text-outlines, networks). It also enables SAGE to support Book's search for previous pictures with graphical elements specified by users. 

## OVERVIEW OF CURRENT APPROACH 

Our approach to supporting design has been to integrate an evolving automatic presentation system called SAGE [9,10] with two new interactive design tools called SageBrush and SageBook. Both tools enable users to manipulate familiar objects in order to perform natural design operations, shielding users from the more complex representations and operations that SAGE uses to create graphics. 

graphics. The object representation is highly extensible, allowing new graphical objects (e.g. lines, polygons, custom icons) SageBrush (also called Brush) is representative of design and encoder mechanisms (e.g. charts, color keys, maps) to tool interfaces in which users specify graphics by be added incrementally. For example, whena line object is constructing sketches from a palette of primitives and/or added to the library, each end-point is defined as having partial designs. Our goal is to provide a flexible, horizontal and vertical positions, enabling the line to be generative, direct manipulation design interface, in which displayed against the axes of a chart. If a map-style is later users can create a large number of possible combinations defined in the library as an encoder that displays horizontal of graphical elements, customize their spatial and structural and vertical positions, then SAGE can automatically draw relationships, and map them to the data they wish to lines on maps (as in Roth Color Plate 1b). visualize. 

SAGE also contains a richer representation of the characteristics of data (e.g. distinguishing scales of measurement, temperature, dates, spatial coordinates, etc). Data transformation operations enable the design of graphics without depending on the surface form of input data (e.g. in relational database terms, SAGE can display N-ary relations and is not dependent on whether data is expressed as multiple binary relations or as a single N-ary relation). 

SageBook (also called Book) is an interface for browsing characteristics of data (e.g. distinguishing scales of and retrieving previously created pictures (i.e. complete, measurement, temperature, dates, spatial coordinates, etc). rendered designs) and utilizing them to visualize new data. Data transformation operations enable the design of Book supports an approach to design in which people graphics without depending on the surface form of input remember or examine previous successful visualizations data (e.g. in relational database terms, SAGE can display and use them as a starting point for designing displays of N-ary relations and is not dependent on whether data is new data, extending and customizing them as needed, Our expressed as multiple binary relations or as a single N-ary experiences in graphic design, as well as related research relation). on engineering and software design [2.6], suggest that search and reuse of prior cases with customization is a ARCHITECTURE common process. Therefore, our goal is to provide Figure 1 illustrates the conceptual relationships among methods for searching through previously created pictures SageBrush, SageBook, SAGE, and a Data Selector - a tool based on their graphical properties and/or the properties of for indicating the mapping between data and graphics. The the data they express. A picture found in this way can process of retrieving data needs to be integrated with optionally be modified in Brush prior to sending it to graphic creation but is not the focus of this paper. We are SAGE, which creates a graphic for the new data. exploring several interactive methods for retrieving and transferring data to the selector, where data appears as a SAGE is an automatic presentation system containing table whose headers can be mapped to graphics (Figure 2). 

SAGE is an automatic presentation system containing many features of related systems like APT, BOZ, and ANDD [1.3.4]. Inputs are a characterization of data to be visualized and a user's data viewing goals. Design operations include selecting techniques based on expressiveness and effectiveness criteria, and composing and laying out graphics appropriate to data and goals. A detailed discussion of automatic design capabilities, 

Users interact with Brush to create graphic design sketches, which are schematic views of designs. These are translated into design directives, which are specifications expressed in SAGE's graphic representation language. Directives include: 

113 

**==> picture [522 x 658] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
taneceeenee<br>ae Human Factors in Computing Systems CHI 94 + "Celebrating Interdependence"<br>* grapheme and property choices (e.g. color and size coverage of graphics will require a knowledgeable system<br>of circles, lines, text, and other graphical objects), behind it to be successful.<br>* encoding mechanisms that provide frames of<br>reference against which properties of graphemes are An example: Figures 2, 3, and Roth Color Plate 1b<br>interpreted (€.g. 2-axis chart, table, map, network), illustrate a sequence for creating a new version of the<br>* layout constraints (e.g. alignment of multiple charts famous graphic by Minard showing Napoleon's 1812<br>horizontally; ordering of labels and graphemes), Campaign [11]. One data set describes the march segments<br>* grouping constraints indicating that clusters of (start and end latitudes/longitudes of each segment, the<br>graphemes are being used to express a single fact number of troops remaining, and the temperature). The<br>(e.g. a bar annotated with a text string; a cluster of other data set contains the city, date, and location of each<br>items arounda city on a map), major battle. These will be visualized by composing<br>* mappings between data and these graphic elements. multiple graphemes and their properties on a map.<br>Data pO | Chart ||Network|| Map Table Grid Labels |/ Outline | Gig<br>EES onesie arsenieuueesiasimutusaen oem werntieimrteareee acre noe<br>Data Picture e 5 :<br>" saaesooK Data5 Directives Picture g: co(tek ca .7 &.<br>; Pictures : : x ' |<br>Figure 1: Architecture 3 23 Ba<br>guide SAGE's automatic processes and provide criteria for 1s ae reo aERSENS<br>Book to use in searching its library of previously designed eo '<br>pictures. Brush can also translate graphics produced by tal e<br>SAGE back into sketches so that users can modify them. [Ho e<br>Users interact with Book to view and save pictures created a. fe<br>by SAGE. The saved information includes a bit map scaled iS t<br>to a browsable size,. a sequence of design. operations. that Eee (Troop Movements in Napoleon's 1812 Campaign B2ca<br>SAGE can use to reconstruct the picture efficiently (ie. oa Temper<br>without redesigning), the picture's data and data type | Se<br>characteristics, and a complete representation of the go Eee Se<br>rendered graphic. Book searches its picture library based (gal! EAI SESE Stee SSE SSS<br>on data users specify with the Selector and/or design renee enn nin,<br>directives derived from sketches created in Brush's work Figure 2: Starting a design sketch in SageBrush.<br>area (Figure 2). Users request the creation of a graphic<br>based on a previously found one by transferring it to Brush Anchoring new designs with partial prototypes. The<br>(where they modify it as a sketch) or directly to SAGE. creation of a new design begins with a user's selection of a<br>The next sections describe these components in detail. partial prototype. As illustrated in Figure 2, Brush's<br>interface consists of a design work area (center) into which<br>SAGEBRUSH users drag prototypes (top), graphemes (left), and data<br>Brush is representative of tools with which users sketch or names (bottom). Prototypes are partial designs, each with a<br>assemble graphical elements to create designs and map spatial organization, graphemes, and/or encoders that<br>them to data. Brush provides users with an intuitive and commonly occur together. Encoders are frames of<br>efficient language for sketching their designs, and reference for interpreting properties of graphemes. For<br>translates these sketches into a form that can be interpreted example, axes enable us to interpret G.e. derive a data<br>by SAGE. There are other possible styles of graphic graphic design value from) the position of a bar in a chart.<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


SAGEBRUSH Brush is representative of tools with which users sketch or assemble graphical elements to create designs and map them to data. Brush provides users with an intuitive and efficient language for sketching their designs, and translates these sketches into a form that can be interpreted by SAGE. There are other possible styles of graphic graphic design interface that could be coordinated with SAGE's internal design mechanisms. One alternative is the demonstrational approach proposed for Gold [5], in which users draw examples of displays. Our claim is that any interactive design interface that attempts to provide complete 

The choice of prototypes to include in the top menu can be customized to applications and could include previously designed graphics. Although primarily a constructive interface, Brush still allows design to be viewed as a 

114 

Boston, Massachusetts USA » April 24-28, 1994 Human Factors in Computing Systems - process of refining prior, effective graphics. The first while the positions of others are interpreted to convey prototype in the top-left of Figure 2 is a general one for association by adjacency. In Figure 3, two text strings have constructing all charts. It is actually a composite of been placed next to the mark (which has been customized horizontal and vertical axes. Although users could to be diamond-shaped) to convey association. Note that construct charts by assembling separate axes, doing so Brush only determined that the two strings and diamond requires more steps and appears less intuitive than are associated. SAGE must infer which of the three is used selecting a chart prototype. A similar rationale led to a to convey position in the coordinate system (using network prototype, consisting of both graphemes (i.e. knowledge of data characteristics and graphic lines) and an encoder against which the graphemes are expressiveness criteria [8,9]). Of course, a user can interpreted (i.e. the nodes). This eliminates the need for explicitly double-click on the diamond and select its users to construct networks from primitives each time. In property icons for position (a pair of arrows). the example, a map prototype (more precisely, a 2D spatial coordinate display) was dragged to the design work area. Communicating the mapping of data to graphics. Dropping a grapheme in a chart and selecting its color result in Customizing by adding primitives to prototypes. directives to SAGE to generate a design where position Prototypes are extended by adding graphemes. While the and color encode data. It does not specify which data (i.e. chart and map prototypes have no graphemes, dragging relation domains) to assign to these properties. While them into the design work area creates an encoding space SAGE could attempt to infer this (just as it could also which supports new design choices. The encoding space of make choices of graphemes and properties), users can a chart or map map is defined by the interior of the the two axes or explicitly make these choices by dragging data labels from coordinate-frame, respectively. Dragging line and mark the Data Selector (bottom Figure 2), and dropping them on graphemes (to represent march segments and battles) from property icons. In Figure 3, Troop Size was mapped to line the left window into the map's encoding space results in thickness and Start Latitude and Start Longitude to the directives to SAGE to include these grapheme types in a position of one end of the line. Battle and Date have been design, with their positional properties interpreted relative mapped to text labels adjacent to the diamond (dragging a to the map's map's coordinate system. data name into the space simultaneously specifies that a text grapheme be used and maps the data to it). The Troop ' completed design resulting from this interaction is shown ih act in Roth Color Plate 1b, which was generated by SAGE. a Coordinating multiple design spaces. In addition to ereatitude |e , definingspaces, whien **c** hoding enablespac us **e** rss, toprototypes specify thealso relativedefine positilay **o** nsut ' of prototypes withi respect to each other. There are two Start types of layout spaces, reflecting adjacency and embedding © relationships. Adjacency spaces enable horizontal and vertical alignments among charts, tables, maps and other prototypes. Two charts and a table in Figure 5 have been sequenced by placement adjacent to each others’ layout Figure 3: Property selection and data mapping in spaces. Embedding spaces enable the placement of one SageBrush's work area. prototype within another (e.g. a network placed within a map or chart; a list placed within a network node). 

Customizing by adding primitives to prototypes. Prototypes are extended by adding graphemes. While the chart and map prototypes have no graphemes, dragging them into the design work area creates an encoding space which supports new design choices. The encoding space of a chart or map map is defined by the interior of the the two axes or coordinate-frame, respectively. Dragging line and mark graphemes (to represent march segments and battles) from the left window into the map's encoding space results in directives to SAGE to include these grapheme types in a design, with their positional properties interpreted relative to the map's map's coordinate system. 

Customizing the properties of graphemes. Graphemes have other properties for encoding data besides position. Properties are chosen by selecting property icons, displayed by double-clicking a grapheme in the design work area. Double-clicking on the line in Figure 3 displays a menu of line properties (width and color) and arrows representing the positional properties of end-points. Selecting a property directs SAGE to use it to encode data in a design but does not indicate the data to which it corresponds. Double-clicking on a property icon allows users to convey specific directives (e.g. make all marks diamond-shaped or all lines blue; reject the use of color). color). 

Finally, it is important to emphasize that all of these design choices are optional. Users only need to specify the data they wish to visualize, but may further specify (to any level of completion): 

- prototypes only, 

- prototypes and additional graphemes, 

- graphemes and their properties, 

- the mapping of data to graphemes, and 

- * the mapping of data to specific grapheme properties. 

diamond-shaped or all lines blue; reject the use of color). color). The Napoleon example illustrates that users needn't specify all mappings. The system inferred End Latitude, End Completing the graphic requires a way to create grapheme Longitude, and Temperature (and could have made choices clusters. As described above, dragging graphemes into an for the other data, possibly differing from those of the encoding space results in directives to use their positional user). The strength of this approach is that it can (1) reduce properties in a design. When two or more graphemes are the amount of work needed to convey design choices and dropped close together in the same space, the position of map them to data, (2) enable the construction of one is interpreted relative to the axes or coordinate system, composites that could not be created by menu-based 

115 

| teA sie Human Factors in Computing Systems CHI 94 +» "Celebraring Interdependence" approaches, (3) provide design expertise to supplement that For example, a data relation (to use relational database of users, and (4) provide design directives for SageBook to terms) representing quarterly expenses for a company's use in searching its library of previously constructed departments (Department, Business Quarter, Operating pictures. Cost) may have the same properties as another relation for stock market data (Stock, Calendar Date, Shares Traded). SAGEBOOK Both relations contain three domains with identical data The goal of Book is to provide users with the ability to characteristics: a nominal type, a temporal coordinate, and create new pictures analogous to existing ones they a quantity. There is also exactly one quantity for each consider useful. Our intent is to provide users with access nominal-time pair in both relations (i.e. functional to a growing portfolio of graphic designs to provide ideas dependency). See [8] for a more complete treatment of for visualizing their data. Book capitalizes on the explicit data characterization relevant to graphic design. representation of designs and data characteristics by SAGE to provide a vocabulary for expressing search criteria. We have designed search criteria for several levels of match overlap based on graphical elements as well. These Book provides two mechanisms for browsing pictures. The involve retrieving pictures that (1) show exactly the same first is a file-folder metaphor analogous to that used in the design elements as those in the Brush sketch and (2) Macintosh system, in which pictures created by SAGE are contain the Brush elements as a subset of a more complex named and stored in locations defined by users. The second design. 

Book provides two mechanisms for browsing pictures. The first is a file-folder metaphor analogous to that used in the Macintosh system, in which pictures created by SAGE are named and stored in locations defined by users. The second mechanism provides browsing by two types of picture content: graphical elements and data. Search criteria are based on exact match or partial overlap with data in the Data Selector and/or design elements in Brush. 

Our current work is addressing the problem of defining match criteria for combinations of data and graphical properties. We are also exploring similarity criteria for defining close matches with partial overlaps. For example, we need criteria for determining whether a network where the color of links encodes data is more similar to a chart using the color of bars or to another network where the widths of links encode data (i.e. what graphical elements are salient to users). Our intuitions suggest the latter, but a cognitive model based on user studies is needed to define similarity, as well as to verify the appropriate graphical primitives for the Book Book and Brush interfaces. 

**==> picture [503 x 419] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Figure 4 illustrates the interface for browsing pictures we need criteria for determining whether a network where<br>retrieved by a search based on data overlap. The data for the color of links encodes data is more similar to a chart<br>the search were facts about activities in a project using the color of bars or to another network where the<br>management database (the final picture is shown in Roth widths of links encode data (i.e. what graphical elements<br>Color Plate 1a). Pictures in the library that expressed are salient to users). Our intuitions suggest the latter, but a<br>similar data were listed by the interface. As a user selects cognitive model based on user studies is needed to define<br>each picture name, its bitmap is displayed. Multiple full similarity, as well as to verify the appropriate graphical<br>size pictures can be displayed and arranged by users for primitives for the Book Book and Brush interfaces.<br>comparison.<br>_‘Eley aeeeanna ieee pemeenannneas sc 00 Eanoenennmeoareammanaananas_ baat Ourcriteriapreliminaryserve differentview purposesis that searchesfor users,basedincluding:on different<br>i [Siemo Piawce | — | * discovering how basic techniques can be expanded<br>, (leeeoaenas ES. amma | with additional graphical elements (e.g. how a<br>BB EY Processcante [a Sos Le } network can encode using additional text or marks<br>| ProcessNetwork is a along its links or within its nodes),<br>t tock Price Interval i aay * quickly retrieving a picture whose name has been<br>g te OR OTE ory ; forgotten, but some of whose elements are known,<br>; er . * minimizing the effort of sketching a new design by<br>i sete eS eI ] retrieving a picture similar to the one desired and<br>i fe then modifying it in Brush.<br>— — (Josesaceprusn [| Exact q _—_—<br>B(x] UseData [_] Exact =<br>Sse wesc hii ee Status<br>Figure 4: Browsing graphics by their data content in —<br>SageBook. —<br>We have designed search criteria for several levels of Figure 5: Adding graphics in SageBrush to a picture<br>match overlap based on data. These involve retrieving found using SageBook (see Figure 4).<br>pictures which:<br>* show exactly the same data relations/attributes as in The last case is illustrated in Figures 4 and 5. Book found<br>the data selector (e.g. find pictures of Activity End), an indented chart with color-coded interval bars for data<br>* contain the selected data in addition to other data, matching only part of a large data selection (activity,<br>* show different data that have the same underlying organization, start, end, current-status, labor-cost,<br>data characteristics. resource). The chart was converted to a sketch in Brush,<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


116 

## Boston, Massachusetts USA * April 24-28, 1994 

and the user added a bar chart and table aligned with the original interval chart. The user also mapped CurrentStatus to the interval grapheme, leaving it to automatic mechanisms in SAGE to map it to color (because the original picture used color). SAGE can automatically assign Activity to the Y-axis, dates to the interval bar, and Labor-Cost to the horizontal position of the bars in the added chart, based on expressiveness rules for these graphical properties. The resulting picture is shown in Roth Color Plate la. SAGE integrated all design elements and determined appropriate data mappings. Notice that Resource is placed in the table, while Organization is placed in the indentation of the Y-axis...an arbitrary choice that a user can easily reverse. The operations that produced Roth Color Plate la can be found in [9]. 

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS Our approach views the task of creating visualizations of data as a combination of two interrelated processes: 

- constructing designs from graphical elements, and 

- ¢ finding and customizing relevant prior examples. 

The extent to which each process occurs varies with user and context. Consequently, we created two tools that play flexible, mutually supportive roles to enable design. SageBrush provides users with an interface for constructing graphic designs and customizing graphics found with SageBook. Brush also enables users to compose graphical queries to be searched using Book. Another central theme of our approach is the use of automated design knowledge in SAGE to provide new display capabilities, to enhance the usability of graphic design interfaces, and to provide design expertise when needed by users. These are realized in several ways. First, SAGE enables users to create a wide variety of integrative displays, which coordinate multiple spaces, graphemes, and visual properties to show the relationships among several data attributes or data sets. This is possible because SAGE recognizes and parses the structure and semantics of sketches that users construct. 

Another central theme of our approach is the use of automated design knowledge in SAGE to provide new display capabilities, to enhance the usability of graphic design interfaces, and to provide design expertise when needed by users. These are realized in several ways. 

Second, knowledge enables a system to automatically design a graphic when requested by users. This can occur when users do not know how to represent data (i.e. they lack expertise in general or for a specific problem) or when they want to compare alternative designs with the ones they have created. 

Third, SAGE reduces the work of designing a graphic by completing it automatically when partially specified. This often eliminates the need for users to assign data to elements of the graphic, select graphical properties once objects are specified, or perform other repetitive selections. 

Fourth, SAGE makes it possible to search displays created previously based on meaningful criteria: the data and graphic elements they contain. Without this knowledge, Book would be limited to browsing graphics based on file attributes. 

**==> picture [168 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Human Factors in Computing Systems si<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


There are many research problems remaining, especially for supporting users with limited graphics expertise. First, the operation of any automatic presentation system depends on the existence of data characterizations [8]. In this research, data characterizations were already present in the database or spreadsheet. We will be exploring ways to infer them or obtain them interactively. 

Second, although SAGE considers user informationseeking goals or tasks [1,8,9], no attempt was made to provide users with the ability to specify these. We are considering creating a goal-selection interface so users can convey their intentions as design directives. 

Finally, there are numerous new graphic design problems to address, including the design of interactive mechanisms for manipulating data displays, displays of large data sets, and graphical techniques such as animation and 3D. See [7] for a more complete discussion of research problems in this area. 

- REFERENCES 1, Casner, S. M. A Task-Analytic Approach to the Automated Design of Information Graphic Presentations. ACM Transactions on Graphics, 10, 2 (Apr. 1991), 111-151. 

- 2. Fischer, G. Cognitive View of Reuse and Redesign. IEEE Software, (July, 1987), 60-72. 

- 3. Mackinlay, J.D. Automating the Design of Graphical Presentations of Relational Information. ACM Transactions on Graphics, 5, 2 (Apr. 1986), 110-141. 

- 4. Marks, J. W. Automating the Design of Network Diagrams. Ph.D. thesis, Harvard University, 1991. 

- 5. Myers, B. A., Goldstein, J., and Goldberg, M. A. Creating Charts by Demonstration. Proceedings SIGCHI'94 Human Factors in Computing Systems, Boston, MA, ACM, April, 1994. 

- 6. Navin-Chandra, D. Exploration and Innovation in Design: Towards a Computational Model. SpringerVerlag, 1991. 

- 7. Roth, S. F. and Hefley, W.E. Intelligent Multimedia Presentation Systems: Research and Principles. In Mark Maybury (Ed.) Intelligent Multimedia Interfaces, AAAI Press, 1993, pp. 13-53. 

- 8. Roth, S. F. and Mattis J. Data Characterization for Intelligent Graphics Presentation. Proceedings SIGCHI'90 Human Factors in Computing Systems, Seattle, WA, ACM, April, 1990, pp. 193-200. 

- 9. Roth, S. F. and Mattis, J. Automating the Presentation of Information. Proceedings IEEE Conference on Al Applications, Miami Beach, FL, Feb. 1991, pp. 90-97. 

- 10. Roth, S. F., Mattis, J., and Mesnard, X. Graphics and Natural Language Generation as Components of Automatic Explanation. In Sullivan and Tyler (Ed.), Intelligent User Interfaces, Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, 1991, 207-239. 

11. Tufte. E.R. The Visual Display of Quantitative Information. Graphic Press, Cheshire, CT, 1983. 

117 

**==> picture [502 x 205] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Cede Ecler egy ei<br>BELOCR . Cet Lk ae — cs<br>BALOCAROSIAVEE——¢Get 34 4<br>wr +<br>=a iia + Treop Siew<br>Temperature<br>33°F = zz HE 3.2<br>Pt ar re<br>ik<br>as.8 Pid 6.8 26,0 nm. ho 0 4.0 31.0 2.0 55 Me 4.o te. Wr. MEO HOD<br>Longitude (degreee)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Roth, Color Plate Ib: "Napoleon's 1812 Campaign", designed interactively using SageBrush. In all, ten data attributes are integrated in a single map-like coordinate space using several kinds of graphical objects. The lines trace the path of Napoleon's eastward advance and westward retreat, including the path of troops that branched north to protect his main force. Line thickness conveys the number of troops traveling each segment, line color conveys the temperature, and the dates and sites of battles are signified by yellow diamonds and text. Napoleon's eastward advance began in extreme heat, with the weather cooling as he approached Moscow (bright red at left fading to pink at upper right). During the westward retreat, the army circled back to retrace its route while the temperature dropped below freezing (the light blue segments overlying the red path). Upon reaching Krasnyj, the army veered south from its previous route. When the march ended, less than three percent of Napoleon's troops remained, as shown by the striking decrease in line thickness. 

**==> picture [504 x 286] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
IRGAN TAT LON BRE ARPA RESOURCE<br>Hill-Smith<br>Bul k-Cleae pee | Bulldozer<br>Clean-Site Ol Ee Truck<br>Pis-trench | [i Eo Bulldozer<br>Hob-Drabock<br>Shingling | a | [ee ee Crane<br>Fa P-Co<br>Tom-Daw is<br>0 25 50 as ie 0 100 1400 2100 2800<br>NAY- TN- PROJECT LABOR-COST<br>CURRENT-STATUS oO B O ||<br>Unslarved Active Sugpended Complete<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Roth, Color Plate la: Result of a SageBrush customizaton of a picture retrieved using SageBook. Six data attributes are integrated ina coordinated set of aligned displays that illustrate project management data. 

**==> picture [2 x 2] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
.<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


476 

